content/schedule.md, before:

---
title: "Schedule"
date: "2021-01-02"
author: ""
---

{{< toc >}}

# Week 1 (8/22) - Introduction to coding and creativity

## Tuesday

- Review syllabus and expectations in class. Please note: that this syllabus is subject to change.
- [Web Audio Examples](../lectures/week-1/examples/)

## Thursday

<!-- - [Why Interaction?](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/why_interaction) - Why code, interact, why use the web?
- [Yotam Examples](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/examples) of interactions with music in space and on the web.
- [Assignment 1: Manifesto Project](assignments/assignment-1-manifesto) -->

<!-- # Week 2 (8/29) - Score as code, code as score

Census Day
- Intro to JavaScript - Numbers, Strings, Arrays, Objects, Functions, and Variables, scope, running code with a server. I won't overly focus on the CS aspects of this, just teach enough for them to be able to create projects.
- Show the console.
- Web audio basics and sound file players - [slides](https://lsu-pdm-2021.netlify.com/week_1_t/_site/#/), [textbook](https://pdm.lsupathways.org/3_audio/1_sampler/1_lesson_1/)

# Week 3 (9/5) - Interfaces

- [Examples of interfaces](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/musical_interfaces) - how have interfaces been built in the past?
  - How do you deal with [mapping](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/gesture_mapping) when developing interfaces?
  - What are some [design rules](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/interface_design) for designing interfaces?
  - Introduction to p5.js - we'll learn p5.js to create interfaces for our interactive music.
- **Project 1 - Build a sampler**
  - [Scores](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/scores) - an introduction to experimental music scores and a comparison to code as a score. The similarity is that they're both series of instructions that produce a piece of music.

# Week 4 (9/12) - Synthesis in Tone.js

Project 1 DUE

- [Yotam - More Tone.js](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/tone_2)
- Adding effects and intro to synthesis - [slides](https://lsu-pdm-2021.netlify.com/week_1_th/_site/#/), [textbook](https://pdm.lsupathways.org/3_audio/1_sampler/2_lesson_2/)
- Making synthesizers from scratch - [slides](https://lsu-pdm-2021.netlify.com/week_2_t/_site/#/)
- **Project 2 - Creating a synthesizer from scratch** - additive, subtractive, FM, AM? Make four presets for each synthesizer as objects. Name the presets something descriptive. You can use the [default presets](https://tonejs.github.io/Presets/) as a starting point.

# Week 5 (9/19) - Process and generative music

Synth from scratch DUE

- [Process Music](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/process_music) - music created from a series of instructions
- [Randomization and patterns](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/randomization)
- Scheduling signals and LFOs - [slides](https://lsu-pdm-2021.netlify.com/week_2_th/_site/#/)
- Instruments and Sequencers - [slides](https://lsu-pdm-2021.netlify.com/week_3_t/_site/#/), [textbook](https://pdm.lsupathways.org/3_audio/2_synthsandmusic/2_lesson_2/)
- Sound Effects and Sequencers - [slides](https://lsu-pdm-2021.netlify.com/week_3_th/_site/#/)
- **create score** - Create a hand-drawn or computer-generated graphical score. This doesn't need to be artistic, just something that will inspire a piece of music for a project later in the semester.
- **Project 3 - [Realize](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/assignment/midterm_1) your score as code** - take part of [PDM scoring an image](https://pdm.lsupathways.org/3_audio/2_synthsandmusic/4_lesson_4/)

# Week 6 (9/26) - More musical complexity

- Rhythm / Scales / Tuning / - [slides](https://lsu-pdm-2021.netlify.com/week_4_t/_static/#/)
- More patterns with [total-serialism](https://github.com/tmhglnd/total-serialism)
- Sound an animation - we'll go through the tricks of adding sound to looping structures. See [HackPact](https://github.com/stc/HackPact) for examples.
- **Assignment 4 - Midterm** - Score a p5.js sketch using everything you've learned so far. Cool p5.js sketches can be found at [Open Processing](https://openprocessing.org/discover/#/trending). Also, see the Generative Design book for great sketches. Also, see the [nature of code](https://github.com/nature-of-code/noc-examples-p5.js).
- Other ideas: [Generative Landscape 1](https://editor.p5js.org/EdCavett/full/-fcf1cLwf), [Generative Landscape 2](https://editor.p5js.org/ndeji69/sketches/rqMKO4jr1)

# Week 7 (10/3) - Sonification

Assignment 3 DUE

- Dealing with real-time data sources
- Sonification - **Assignment 5** - sonify any real-time data from the web. Ex: [ISS Location](https://github.com/CodeAsCreativeMedium/exercises/tree/main/17_sound/09_data_sonification). See Measuring Device from CaCM pg 110 for more sensor-based inspiration. You could also sonify time-related data. See [ClockWork](https://clockwork.scholarslab.org/) for examples on that. This project is also inspired by the following:
- Clock project from code as creative medium (pg 30).
- Data Self-Portrait (pg 62) - instead of sonifying a source of data you find, make your data source that represents some aspect of your life.

# Week 8 (10/10) - Mobile/networked Music

Assignment 4 DUE

- Mobile Music - Project 6
- [immaterial.cloud: Using peer-to-peer technologies for music](https://webaudioconf.com/posts/2021_13/)
- show some of my other projects too
- [The Hub](https://github.com/jtallison/NetArt-Repo)
- Or just simpler version with socket.io
- TODO: more resources

# Week 9 (10/17) - More Mobile Music

Assignment 5 DUE

- TODO: Readings and assignments for mobile music - look at some of my papers to see who i cited

# Week 10 (10/24) - More weird synthesis

- [Audio analysis](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/analysis)
	- [meyda](https://github.com/meyda/meyda)
- [Granular-js](https://github.com/philippfromme/granular-js)
- [Paulstretch.js](https://github.com/sebpiq/paulstretch.js)
- [Magenta.js](https://magenta.tensorflow.org/get-started)
  - [Demos](https://magenta.tensorflow.org/demos/web/)
  - [Interactive generative models for music](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f0XO4A_-EeY)

# Week 11 (10/31) - Live Coding

- Ethos of Live Coding
  - [Show us your screens](https://vimeo.com/20241649)
  - [Toplap Manifesto](https://toplap.org/wiki/ManifestoDraft)
  - [Algorave](https://algorave.com/) - coding to dance to
    - [Algorave Generation | Resident Advisor](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S2EZqikCIfY)
  - [Awesome Live Coding](https://github.com/toplap/awesome-livecoding)
- Tools
  - [Gibber](https://gibber.cc/alpha/playground/)
    - See Gabber for collaborations
    - [Rethinking networked collaboration in the live coding environment Gibber](https://nime.pubpub.org/pub/4b8l5iqc/release/1)
  - [Sema](https://sema.codes/)
  - [Glicol](https://glicol.org/) - also allows collaboration
  - [Strudel](https://github.com/tidalcycles/strudel) - port of tidal cycles

> READ: [Algorave - Mixmag](https://mixmag.net/feature/algorave/8)

# Week 12 (11/7) - Live Coding

Live coding performances - in a group of two or more perform a 5 minute piece with the live coding environment you liked the best.

# Week 13 (11/14) - FINAL PROJECT

Start on your final project, something you propose related to what we've learned this semester.

# Week 14 (11/21)

## Thursday

Thanksgiving - No classes

# Week 15 (11/28)

# Week 16 (12/5)

## Thursday

Start of final exams -->

Commit message:

added examples for next class

content/schedule.md, after:

---
title: "Schedule"
date: "2021-01-02"
author: ""
---

{{< toc >}}

# Week 1 (8/22) - Introduction to coding and creativity

## Tuesday

- Review syllabus and expectations in class. Please note: that this syllabus is subject to change.
- [Web Audio Examples](../lectures/week-1/examples/)

## Thursday

- [Why Interaction?](../lectures/week-1/why-interaction/) - Why code, interact, why use the web?
- [Interaction examples](../lectures/week-1/more-examples/) of interactions with music in space and on the web.
- [Assignment 1: Manifesto Project](../projects/assignment-1-manifesto/)

<!-- # Week 2 (8/29) - Score as code, code as score

Census Day
- Intro to JavaScript - Numbers, Strings, Arrays, Objects, Functions, and Variables, scope, running code with a server. I won't overly focus on the CS aspects of this, just teach enough for them to be able to create projects.
- Show the console.
- Web audio basics and sound file players - [slides](https://lsu-pdm-2021.netlify.com/week_1_t/_site/#/), [textbook](https://pdm.lsupathways.org/3_audio/1_sampler/1_lesson_1/)

# Week 3 (9/5) - Interfaces

- [Examples of interfaces](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/musical_interfaces) - how have interfaces been built in the past?
  - How do you deal with [mapping](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/gesture_mapping) when developing interfaces?
  - What are some [design rules](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/interface_design) for designing interfaces?
  - Introduction to p5.js - we'll learn p5.js to create interfaces for our interactive music.
- **Project 1 - Build a sampler**
  - [Scores](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/scores) - an introduction to experimental music scores and a comparison to code as a score. The similarity is that they're both series of instructions that produce a piece of music.

# Week 4 (9/12) - Synthesis in Tone.js

Project 1 DUE

- [Yotam - More Tone.js](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/tone_2)
- Adding effects and intro to synthesis - [slides](https://lsu-pdm-2021.netlify.com/week_1_th/_site/#/), [textbook](https://pdm.lsupathways.org/3_audio/1_sampler/2_lesson_2/)
- Making synthesizers from scratch - [slides](https://lsu-pdm-2021.netlify.com/week_2_t/_site/#/)
- **Project 2 - Creating a synthesizer from scratch** - additive, subtractive, FM, AM? Make four presets for each synthesizer as objects. Name the presets something descriptive. You can use the [default presets](https://tonejs.github.io/Presets/) as a starting point.

# Week 5 (9/19) - Process and generative music

Synth from scratch DUE

- [Process Music](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/process_music) - music created from a series of instructions
- [Randomization and patterns](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/randomization)
- Scheduling signals and LFOs - [slides](https://lsu-pdm-2021.netlify.com/week_2_th/_site/#/)
- Instruments and Sequencers - [slides](https://lsu-pdm-2021.netlify.com/week_3_t/_site/#/), [textbook](https://pdm.lsupathways.org/3_audio/2_synthsandmusic/2_lesson_2/)
- Sound Effects and Sequencers - [slides](https://lsu-pdm-2021.netlify.com/week_3_th/_site/#/)
- **create score** - Create a hand-drawn or computer-generated graphical score. This doesn't need to be artistic, just something that will inspire a piece of music for a project later in the semester.
- **Project 3 - [Realize](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/assignment/midterm_1) your score as code** - take part of [PDM scoring an image](https://pdm.lsupathways.org/3_audio/2_synthsandmusic/4_lesson_4/)

# Week 6 (9/26) - More musical complexity

- Rhythm / Scales / Tuning / - [slides](https://lsu-pdm-2021.netlify.com/week_4_t/_static/#/)
- More patterns with [total-serialism](https://github.com/tmhglnd/total-serialism)
- Sound an animation - we'll go through the tricks of adding sound to looping structures. See [HackPact](https://github.com/stc/HackPact) for examples.
- **Assignment 4 - Midterm** - Score a p5.js sketch using everything you've learned so far. Cool p5.js sketches can be found at [Open Processing](https://openprocessing.org/discover/#/trending). Also, see the Generative Design book for great sketches. Also, see the [nature of code](https://github.com/nature-of-code/noc-examples-p5.js).
- Other ideas: [Generative Landscape 1](https://editor.p5js.org/EdCavett/full/-fcf1cLwf), [Generative Landscape 2](https://editor.p5js.org/ndeji69/sketches/rqMKO4jr1)

# Week 7 (10/3) - Sonification

Assignment 3 DUE

- Dealing with real-time data sources
- Sonification - **Assignment 5** - sonify any real-time data from the web. Ex: [ISS Location](https://github.com/CodeAsCreativeMedium/exercises/tree/main/17_sound/09_data_sonification). See Measuring Device from CaCM pg 110 for more sensor-based inspiration. You could also sonify time-related data. See [ClockWork](https://clockwork.scholarslab.org/) for examples on that. This project is also inspired by the following:
- Clock project from code as creative medium (pg 30).
- Data Self-Portrait (pg 62) - instead of sonifying a source of data you find, make your data source that represents some aspect of your life.

# Week 8 (10/10) - Mobile/networked Music

Assignment 4 DUE

- Mobile Music - Project 6
- [immaterial.cloud: Using peer-to-peer technologies for music](https://webaudioconf.com/posts/2021_13/)
- show some of my other projects too
- [The Hub](https://github.com/jtallison/NetArt-Repo)
- Or just simpler version with socket.io
- TODO: more resources

# Week 9 (10/17) - More Mobile Music

Assignment 5 DUE

- TODO: Readings and assignments for mobile music - look at some of my papers to see who i cited

# Week 10 (10/24) - More weird synthesis

- [Audio analysis](https://tambien.github.io/InteractiveMusic/module/analysis)
	- [meyda](https://github.com/meyda/meyda)
- [Granular-js](https://github.com/philippfromme/granular-js)
- [Paulstretch.js](https://github.com/sebpiq/paulstretch.js)
- [Magenta.js](https://magenta.tensorflow.org/get-started)
  - [Demos](https://magenta.tensorflow.org/demos/web/)
  - [Interactive generative models for music](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f0XO4A_-EeY)

# Week 11 (10/31) - Live Coding

- Ethos of Live Coding
  - [Show us your screens](https://vimeo.com/20241649)
  - [Toplap Manifesto](https://toplap.org/wiki/ManifestoDraft)
  - [Algorave](https://algorave.com/) - coding to dance to
    - [Algorave Generation | Resident Advisor](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S2EZqikCIfY)
  - [Awesome Live Coding](https://github.com/toplap/awesome-livecoding)
- Tools
  - [Gibber](https://gibber.cc/alpha/playground/)
    - See Gabber for collaborations
    - [Rethinking networked collaboration in the live coding environment Gibber](https://nime.pubpub.org/pub/4b8l5iqc/release/1)
  - [Sema](https://sema.codes/)
  - [Glicol](https://glicol.org/) - also allows collaboration
  - [Strudel](https://github.com/tidalcycles/strudel) - port of tidal cycles

> READ: [Algorave - Mixmag](https://mixmag.net/feature/algorave/8)

# Week 12 (11/7) - Live Coding

Live coding performances - in a group of two or more perform a 5 minute piece with the live coding environment you liked the best.

# Week 13 (11/14) - FINAL PROJECT

Start on your final project, something you propose related to what we've learned this semester.

# Week 14 (11/21)

## Thursday

Thanksgiving - No classes

# Week 15 (11/28)

# Week 16 (12/5)

## Thursday

Start of final exams -->
